Welcome to Cornerstone.
Here's Pastor Steve's message of the week.
Good to see all of you and I am so excited to be back with you today.
Lisa and I were talking earlier in the week.
David had called me too and said, Hey, I need to be making arrangements for Sunday.
And I'm like, well, you know, I'm not really sure yet.
So let me, let me see what time the Lord does with this.
So I try not to miss, if I don't have to, but, but anyway, it's good to be with you.
And I'm excited about what the Lord's going to do through this message today.
Anybody ever feel tempted once or twice, a little temptation in your life every now and then.
I think we probably all do.
Well, our friend James has a lot to say about that.
If you'll turn with me over to chapter one, we're going to be in verses 13 to 18.
But this is just a great place for us to continue our emphasis on spiritual maturity and talk about evangelism and going ahead and continuing our focus on that this year.
And I really, you know, and I know Brandon is preaching at Stiefel Town today, but I really appreciate what he had to say towards the end of his message on the last Sunday of the year about setting the tone for spiritual growth and wanting to be more and more like Jesus every day.
And I just believe that this is a wonderful way to
Continue our focus on that because the devil will try everything that he can possibly do to keep you from spiritually growing and he doesn't want you to have Anything at all to do with that well James is going to address that and and he's talking to When we read this you'll know who he's speaking to he's speaking to a group of Jews and these Christian Jews who were exhibiting behavior That showed not their spiritual maturity
but their spiritual immaturity.
So we're going to be talking about that.
These people, listen now, they profess to be Christians in their lives.
They profess to be Christians.
But they were not living in such a way that they were able to show that very much.
Does that make sense to you?
You know, people like that.
You know, we profess to be Christians, but if you were to actually look at us, we might not look like we're Christian.
I think I asked a question we were teaching in Philippians not long ago, and I think I may have asked a question, something similar to this.
If you were on trial for being a Christian, is there enough evidence there to say, yes, you are?
Managing temptation, avoiding temptation.
All of these things is part of this.
Now, these people that James is talking to, these Christian Jews, they were dealing with worldliness, they were dealing with physical illnesses,
The reason for that is because they were disobeying the Word of God.
They knew what it said, but they were disobeying the Word of God.
They were arguing with one another.
And these people, and maybe you know people like this as well, but they weren't real concerned about having attacked about it.
You know, we try to talk to people, we try to talk to people with tact.
We try to address each other the right way, the Christian way.
That wasn't happening here.
They didn't have very much tact about them.
That their tongue had become a huge problem.
Anybody know somebody with their tongues a huge problem?
You don't have to wave your hand.
We all probably could fall into that category ourselves at times.
But the way that they talked to each other was extremely offensive.
They had problems with each other and it created division in the church.
So these folks were professing to be Christians, even though they were professing that they were not growing spiritually.
They had no growth.
Their agendas, their own agendas had become more important than the agenda that God had laid out for them.
So that was a problem.
So in verses 13 to 18 today, we're going to see James teach them about handling this and about avoiding it, how to manage it, all this temptation.
So let's stand together as we read.
the Word of God this morning.
Again, it's verses 13 to 18 of chapter one.
If you got to say a God, here's what it says.
It says, James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ to the 12 tribes scattered among the nation's greetings.
Consider it pure joy, my brothers and sisters, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because know that the testing of your faith produces perseverance.
that perseverance finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything.
If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God who gives generously to all without finding fault.
It will be given to you.
But when you ask, you must believe and not doubt because the one who doubts is like the wave of the sea blown and tossed by the wind.
That person should not expect to receive anything from the Lord.
such as a person is double minded.
I think I started at verse one, didn't I?
I will keep reading.
We're catching up.
I'm so sorry guys.
Let's go back to verse nine.
We're going to put a focus on 13 to 18.
The believers in humble circumstances ought to take pride in their high position, but the rich should take pride in their humiliation since they will pass away like wildflower.
For the sun rises with scorching heat and
withers the plant.
This blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed in the same way the rich will fade away even while they go about their business.
So blessed is the one who perseveres under trial because having stood the test, that person will receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised those who love him.
All right.
So let's pick up in the text that we have today.
We attempted no one should say God is tempting me for God cannot be tempted by evil nor does he tempt anyone.
But each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed.
Then after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin.
And sin when it is full grown gives birth to death.
Don't be deceived, my dear brothers and sisters.
Every good and perfect gift is from above.
Coming down from the father of the heavenly lights who does not change like shifting shadows.
He chose to give us birth through the word of God that we might be
a kind of first fruits of all he created.
Lord, thank you for this.
Maybe there's a reason that you had us read those first 12 verses.
But Lord, I just thank you for the word.
And I just thank you, Father, we can never go wrong by reading more than what we had planned.
So I just pray, Father, that you just touch this in a mighty way.
And we thank you for this opportunity in Jesus' name.
Amen.
You may be seated.
You know what the bad part is?
I even had it highlighted in my Bible.
And I still read the wrong stuff.
You know, it's funny.
At least I think I need, these readers just are not getting it, darling.
So anyway, we'll figure it out.
It'll be fine.
12 extra verses, never hurt anybody.
Amen.
That's right.
Well, if we were to show a hands this morning, if I were to ask you to do that, if I were to ask you to lift your hands, answer the question, how many of us have already been tempted by something this morning?
I already see hands and didn't even ask, but I imagine all of us probably could raise our hands and say yes or no.
Perhaps you woke up this morning and if you like me, that bed fell so good.
It's been easy.
I've been sick.
I really don't feel like going today.
It's too late for me to call somebody to preach, so I got to go.
But that temptation is always there, isn't it?
Especially on Sunday.
The devil's ever going to try to do something to you to tempt you
You can count on it being on Sunday morning more so than any other time because he doesn't want you to be here to go to church.
Maybe you were tempted in other ways today, just all kinds of different things, but whatever your temptation may have been this morning.
Thank you for being here.
It's important.
The fellowship of believers is just so important to be here together, to be able to study God's word together and just love on each other.
That's important, but you're being here.
It shows something.
out of all the other things that you could have been doing today, out of all the things that the devil has tempted you with, even this morning, your presence today shows your spiritual maturity.
Not that our folks that are not here are spiritually immature.
If things happen, doesn't mean that if we're watching online, we're spiritually immature.
Doesn't mean that if there are people that are not here, there are good reasons for people to not be here.
But being in the Lord's house on Sunday is a big deal.
Illnesses come up.
We deal with all kind of injuries.
It plays a huge part of us here.
But many of us have had, over the past couple of months, we've had these illnesses.
It's just been a rough stretch.
But I understand the fear of mingling closely.
And I don't know if you've noticed today, please don't be offended.
But I haven't really gotten a whole lot close to people today.
And it's not that I'm contagious.
I really don't think that I am.
I've been on an antibiotic now for a week.
And I really don't think that that's the case.
something about coughing on somebody.
You just don't feel like that's the right thing to do.
So been keeping my distance, but, but this passage of scripture this morning is dealing with some of this.
It's dealing with temptation and dealing with these types of reasons that we, we must be careful about the temptation of staying away from church.
It's easy to do by staying out of church than we are missing out on this fellowship of
believers, aren't we?
We must fellowship together and we put a big emphasis on family here and I still think we're riding the coattails of our sermon series that we did.
When was it last year?
Uh, first part of last year we did an old family matter.
So was that the year before?
I can't remember now, but all of that has just taken place and it's really been a big push for our church, but we must fellowship together in these times of mingling together.
What does it do?
Well, it helps us to minimize the temptation in our lives.
We're surrounded by like people.
So we try to minimize temptation.
And immature Christians have a difficult time seeing or looking for the need to fellowship with fellow believers.
They don't always realize the concept of how surrounding themselves with other Christians has so many spiritual and physical benefits.
And we need to encourage one another.
We need to care for one another.
We're certainly better together.
And I believe that we are better together.
You see, we all have trials.
Many of you raised your hand just a moment ago on the temptation question.
If I were to ask the same thing, old trials, many of you would raise your hand even now.
Sometimes the trials are testings on the outside, but sometimes they're temptations on the inside.
Trials as they are may be a test that is sent from God, but listen, they can also be a temptation that is sent from Satan.
We encourage our own temptation, which only comes for the devil.
We saw that in this passage today.
God can't be tempted, nor does he tempt anyone else.
James says, but through our own fallen nature is when this temptation comes from the devil.
And James deals with that throughout this passage.
Now you might be asking yourself why James connected the two.
What's the connection between testings without temptations within?
You see, if we're not careful,
The testings that we have on the outside could become temptations that we have on the inside.
How many times do we identify our trial?
We recognize how difficult our circumstances are.
And then we start to complain about that circumstance.
We complain to everyone around us, including God.
Anybody ever complain to God about something?
Sure we have.
We begin to sometimes maybe even question the love of God for us.
Some would do that.
We'll complain with statements like this.
We'll say, if God is such a loving God, then why are my circumstances so bad?
You ever heard that?
How can a loving God allow the world to be in the shape that it's in today?
You ever heard that kind of complaint?
We ask these type questions and then we start to resist the will of God.
We don't want to do the will of God to who allows bad things to happen to good people.
This is where Satan comes in.
He knows that you're at your most vulnerable point.
He knows that you're weak.
So what does he do?
He presents you with an offer.
An evil offer.
He knows you're weak.
He makes you an offer to escape
these difficult times in this offer of this opportunity that Satan uses, we call it temptation.
There's many illustrations of this in the Bible.
And if we think about it for just a minute, you can reflect on this happening already in your own life.
We all deal with temptation.
It's just how it is.
We know where temptation takes us.
The temptation that we allow in our lives, what causes us to sin?
And oftentimes we yield to the temptation.
We have to remember this, we are not a sheltered people.
We're vulnerable to this.
We are subject to temptation at any time.
Certainly God does not want us to yield to temptation, but He's not going to spare us from experiencing the temptation.
Mature Christians, it doesn't matter how immature or how mature you are, we're going to face testings.
We're going to face
temptations in our lives.
Overcoming temptation is a serious issue for all of us.
We have to overcome this.
And I believe that there are three considerations that we can look at this morning to help us overcome the temptation.
First of all, I believe that we should consider the judgment of God.
James said here in verse 15, to look ahead, look and see where sin leads you.
Where does it lead?
Well, it leads to death.
We shouldn't blame God for our temptations.
He didn't do it.
God is holy.
James says that God cannot be tempted.
He also will not tempt others.
But he can and he will test us as he did Abraham and others.
Yes, he will.
We are the ones who turn testing into temptation, creating sin and death.
in our lives.
I like to think of this, you know, Lisa and I like to go out and eat.
Sometimes we probably do more than that and what we should, but I enjoy a good meal on occasion with somebody else doing the cooking and the cleanup.
Isn't that nice?
But you're sitting there.
If you consider not paying for that meal, that's a temptation, isn't it?
Just walk right out the front door.
Not that I've ever done that, but that's a temptation.
No one would be the wiser if I just kept walking, right?
I don't think they've got the meal police standing at the door.
Don't do that, by the way.
That's sin, temptation, that's stealing.
Probably have any gesture in the rest of the night.
But by thinking this way, we're allowing temptation to penetrate our minds, aren't we?
You see, we think of sin as being a single act.
We commit the sin.
We ask forgiveness, and it's over with.
God looks at it as a process.
Back in the Garden of Eden, Adam committed one act of sin, and yet that one act of sin brought some things.
It brought sin, it brought death, and it brought judgment on the entire human race.
This process that I'm talking about has some stages.
Verse 14 uses the words evil desire.
Desire in itself is not sinful, is it?
There are certain desires that have been instilled in us by God to help us function in our daily lives.
These normal desires were given to us by God.
Think of hunger and thirst.
If we didn't feel hunger and thirst, we would never eat or drink.
What would happen?
We would shrivel up and die.
Our bodies get tired.
We have fatigue.
It's a normal reaction and a desire is for rest.
Without fatigue, the body would never rest and we would eventually wear out.
For us married couples, our adults, sex is a normal desire.
Without it, the human race would stop revolving.
These desires are normal desires.
We should satisfy the desires in the godly way that he desires.
It's when we want to satisfy these desires and the ways outside of God's will is where the sin creeps in and we get into trouble.
Think of it this way, eating is normal, but gluttony is a sin.
Sleep is normal, but laziness is a sin.
Hebrews chapter 13 verse 4 says this, marriage is honorable in all, in the bed undefiled, but sex outside of marriage
God will judge.
Listen, we should never put ourselves in a position to allow our desires to overcome our judgment.
God gave us good sense.
God expects us to know the difference between our natural desires and draw the line before we fall into temptation.
I was always taught that it was a pretty simple process.
We must satisfy our desires, but being tempted to over indulge can cause sin.
So I make a few rules and I don't always abide by them.
But if you're prone to being tempted to, to overeat, then stay out of the places where you can overeat.
Makes sense.
If you're prone to being tempted to sleep all day and get up, get dressed and present yourself to somebody.
If you're prone to being tempted by alcohol, then stay out of the liquor stores.
If our teenagers are having these desires and a probe to having sex before marriage, then stay out of a parked car with your sweetheart.
It's simple.
It's not rocket science.
It's not complicated unless we make it that way.
In this passage, James also uses the word deception.
You ever seen that?
You ever noticed
that no temptation never appears as temptation.
It always appears more alluring than it actually is.
This is part of the makeup of Satan.
He practices to deceive us.
That's what he wants to do.
He's the master of deception.
He does his best to trick us in the old bait and switch.
He's perfected it.
Verse 14 says that we are tempted and we're dragged away by what?
Our own evil desire.
We put ourselves in positions to be enticed or to be deceived and Satan will present us with something that makes sense to us at the time.
It'll appeal to the natural desires that God Almighty has given us.
But the bait that he uses not only attracts us, but it also hides the fact that we're yielding to this desire or temptation will bring sorrow and punishment.
The bait that he uses appears to be an exciting thing.
We see this throughout the Bible.
I think of David and Bathsheba.
Think of this story.
Perfect example of deception, temptation, sin and finally consequence.
When David saw Bathsheba bathing that day, he would never have allowed himself to commit adultery and he seemed to tragic consequences that it caused.
This chain of events caused the death of a baby, the murder of a brave soldier and a friend and the violation of a daughter.
See the bait that Satan uses to cause us to yield to temptation keeps us from seeing the consequences of sin until it's too late.
Jesus himself, as we know, dealt with his own temptation.
When he was tempted by Satan, how did Satan find him?
Well, he found him at his weakest point.
That sound familiar?
He was tired.
Jesus was hungry.
All of these human desires that we've been talking about this morning, Jesus was feeling all of this.
Satan pinpointed him.
So how did Jesus deal with the temptation?
He said it is written.
He went to the Word of God.
He fended the devil off with his own words.
We know the story three different times.
Jesus told Satan it is written.
Jesus knew what the scripture said.
He didn't allow Satan to twist them and it ties him into yielding to this temptation.
Folks, listen, we have to know what the word of God says.
We have to know this.
We can't just memorize a few scriptures say, that's okay.
Listen, it ain't okay.
It's not.
We must learn and massage the Word of God in our hearts and in our minds to keep us from being deceived.
When you know the Bible, you can detect this bait and you can deal with it decisively.
This is what it means to walk by faith and not walk by sight.
Folks, are you walking by faith today?
Let me ask you that.
Are you finding yourself right now in the middle of a temptation somehow?
Are you right on the edge of sin because you cannot fight this temptation anymore?
Have you taken debate that Satan has put in front of you?
Well, let me tell you something, Christian.
I can tell you this right now.
If you have listened, God can and will deliver you.
Every time he has provided you with the ultimate handbook that will keep you from being deceived.
This is God's word.
It's His Word.
It'll give you the wisdom to know what is fact from fiction.
It'll tell you the difference in between.
It'll show you what when a so-called evangelist on TV is lying to your face and deceiving you.
Folks, some of it looks attractive and it just reels us in like a fish on a hook, but I'm telling you God's Word says that we are being baited and Satan is a liar from the pits of hell.
It's time Christians listen.
It's time that we wake up.
It's time that we wise up.
It's time that we win the battle with temptation in our lives.
We don't have to live a deceived life.
God has given us what we need.
And this is what I stand on.
We must be willing to know what it says.
Verse 15 also speaks of disobedience and death.
Disobedience is a decision that we make.
If we are disobedient as Christians, that's a choice.
You choose to be disobedient.
In this instance, we've moved from emotion, which is desire to our own will.
What will we choose to do?
You see, desire gives us the method of taking debate.
The will approves the act and the result is what?
Sin.
Christian living is a matter of the will.
Not the feelings.
Some believers say, I don't like to read the Bible.
I don't feel like coming on Wednesday and Sunday nights.
Folks, listen, children act on their feelings.
adults act on the basis of the will.
This is why an immature Christian will easily fall into these kinds of temptations.
They will allow their feelings to supersede their will.
The more we exercise our will into saying no to temptation, the more God will work in our lives.
I like what Philippians 2.13 says.
It says, for it is God who works in you
to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose.
The disobedience in our lives gives birth to death, not life.
It could take years for our sin to mature, but when it does, the result is death.
If we believe God's Word, it will encourage us to not yield to temptation.
So these four stages of temptation, desire, deception, disobedience and death,
are perfectly explained in the story of Adam and Eve.
The serpent used desire to get Eve's attention.
Her desire for the forbidden fruit was aroused because Satan promised her knowledge and he promised her that she would be like the gods.
We see the deception at 2 Corinthians chapter 11 verse three.
It says, but I am afraid that just as Eve was deceived,
By the serpents cunning, your minds may somehow be led astray from your sincere and pure devotion to Christ.
Again, Satan is the great deceiver.
He likes to twist God's word just as he did right here with Eve to tempt and ultimately cause sin.
Eve also disobeyed God by allowing her desire to supersede her will.
She took the fruit.
She ate it.
She shared it with Adam.
He also ate it, causing sin.
They both were in disobedience to God.
Through this, both Adam and Eve experienced spiritual death.
This act calls separation from God, and it calls their physical deaths.
Eve took the bait.
She sinned because of her desire and deception.
Adam, he sinned eyes wide open.
He was not deceived.
His will overshadowed specifically what God told them to do and not to do.
So the bait is real.
We deal with debate every day.
Whenever we're faced with temptation, friends, let me encourage you, take your eyes off the bait.
and put them back squarely on God.
That's where our eyes have to be.
That's where our heart has to be.
So let me encourage you to do that.
There's no day like today to take your eyes off of the old bait and switch.
Don't let Satan deceive you.
Know the Word.
Don't let him twist the words like the serpent did with Eve.
Don't do that.
Don't let somebody tell you something that is an untruth that doesn't match up with what God's word says.
We close this morning.
Are you focused on maturing spiritually?
Or are you being deceived by the trials and temptations that distract you?
As you grow,
and mature spiritually, you're going to see less and less temptation.
It'll still be there.
It's just the way of life.
There'll always be trials.
But are we using those trials to mature in the Lord?
Every head bound, every eye closed.
No one looking around.
Let me just ask you, is there someone here this morning that is dealing with the temptation in your life that you are afraid is going to cause you to sin or has already caused you to sin?
No one's looking around.
If that's you today, would you just lift your hand?
I want to pray for you.
You just lift your hand.
Temptation's real.
Sin is certainly real.
But an old preacher one day says, sin is serious.
And it is.
We all deal with the temptations and the trials of life.
of God, practicing the word of God, fellowshiping with the believers, growing spiritual will help us to avoid the temptation.
If you're here today and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, I would invite you to come this morning.
Our altar is open.
Come and speak with me.
You can come and pray.
If you feel the tug of the Holy Spirit today, I would just ask you to come give it all to Jesus.
Would you do that?
Would you stand with me as Suzanne Plates?
people said.
Amen.
Thank you so much for being here today.
Thank you for joining us today on the podcast and learning God's word together at Cornerstone Baptist Church.
To find out more about how to have a personal walk with Jesus, check out the contact page on our website at cbcakin.com.
We'd love to have you visit us at 100 Cornerstone Drive, Akin, South Carolina.
You're always welcome.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
God bless you and have a wonderful day.